So what is knitr?
So knitr is this tool that I'm going to
talk about that can help you make these
reproducible documents.
Knitr is an R package.
It's written by Yihui Xie who, while he
was a grad student at Iowa State.
It's available on CRAN.
If you happen to use the package R Studio
it's actually built
into R Studio, and so it's,
it's integrated into the graphical user
interface.
And so, you don't even have to obtain it
separately if you're using R-Studio.
So, it supports for the documentation
language.
It supports, something called RMarkdown.
It also supports, LaTeX and HTML.
So these are three languages, that are
commonly used.
And then, it can export to PDF and HTML
and and you can
also export to other formats if using,
using other external tools like Pandoc.
It's built right into RStudio for your
convenience, as I just mentioned.
So, what do you need to use knitr?
You need a recent version
of R.
You need a text editor.
You can use the one that comes with
RStudio if you
happen to be using that, otherwise any old
text editor will do.
You need some support packages that are
available from CRAN.
These will be automatically downloaded if
you use the install dot packages function.
You need some knowledge of one of the
three documentation languages.
So, you need, need to know Markdown, LaTeX
or HTML.
And I will talk about Markdown here
since it's a fairly simple language to
understand.
So, what is Markdown?
Well, it's a simplified version of common
markup languages.
So LaTeX and HTML could be thought of as
markup languages,
where you take regular text and you kind
of add things
to it, add tags and other types of
annotation to kind
of tell, to indicate what you want to do
with the text.
One problem with markup languages is that
they can
be kind of like with they can be very
difficult to read cause all this kind of
tags
and things that, that, that can, can, that
can obscure
the actual text.
So the purpose of Markdown is just kind of
simplify all that, make it easy to read
just
the text and only have a few kind of
formatting elements that you need to enter
into the document.
There's no special editor required, just a
standard text
editor, Notepad, you know, whatever you
want to use.
There are simple, intuitive formatting
elements and you can
get all of the documentation at this
website here.
So, what is knitr good for in terms of
creating reproducible documents?
Well, personally, I think it's good for
things like manuals.
If you want to instruct someone on how to
use a piece of software.
Short or medium length technical documents
so you're explaining some technical
concept.
tutorials, if you want to, again, this is
like a
manual, but maybe more extended, a
tutorial on some topic.
reports, they're especially useful for
reports.
If you have to, for example, every week
generate a report on some database or some
dataset.
If you're running a study and you
have subjects that are constantly being
enrolled
in the study and then maybe every week you
generate a report on, it, it
has summary statistics about about the
study
that these kinds of live documents are
very useful because you can recalculate
all
the summary statistics as you generate the
document.
You don't have to do it by hand and then
stick it into a report separately.
And then also for data preprocessing.
So, often it's useful if you're going to
preprocess
a dataset to create a clean dataset, to
create a knitr type document where, that
documents all of the things that you do to
the dataset to make it clean.
Maybe you remove some outliers, maybe you
fill in some
missing data, maybe you transform a
variable here and there.
All of that can be documented, in this
kind of knitr's file, you know, where
you simultaneously say what you did and
then you actually do it in the code.
What is knitr not good for?
Well in, by, in my opinion, it's not very
good for very long research articles,
so if you're writing, writing a very
complex,
very involved analysis it, like I said
before,
because everything is stored in a single
document,
it can get a little bit confusing to
kind of edit this document if there's a
lot of code and a lot of text.
If you have, if have very complex or
time-consuming computations
then knitr is often not a good format
because you have
to recompile this document every time you
want to look at it.
And so if your computations are very slow
this will just kind of make everything
slow.
And furthermore if you have a document, if
you
want to create a document that requires
very precise formatting.
So if you have a special layout and the
pictures have to
go here and the text has to go here or
something like that.
Knitr is, again, not a super great tool
for
that because the formatting tends to be
very ad hoc.